Students must work on a development project as part of the Core Curriculum for their capstone project.
To develop a high-speed computer network reaching virtually every room on campus and provide networked PCs or workstations for students, faculty, and employees.
No.
It was chosen as the mascot for embodying CMU's traits like strength, agility, and determination.
The original name was Carnegie Technical Schools.
No.
The terrier's temperament of determination and thoughtfulness reflects CMU's ethos.
Through the Andrew Project, which established a high-speed network and provided networked computing resources, making CMU the most connected university at the time.
In the first year fall semester, courses include Grammars and Lexicons, Algorithms for NLP, and Directed Study. The spring semester offers Search Engines or Machine Learning for Text Mining, Machine Translation, a Self-Paced Lab, and Directed Study.
The awarding of the first U.S. drama degree in 1914 marked Carnegie Tech as a pioneer in conservatory degree programs for drama.
Emoticons have had a significant and enduring impact on digital communication by providing a simple way to convey emotions and intentions, reducing misunderstandings in text-based messages.
5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
The community participated in the mascot choice through surveys and a Town Hall.
CMU alumna Shafi Goldwasser developed an encryption scheme that makes online data like credit card numbers safer, earning her a Turing Award.
No.
Hundreds of thousands of students benefit annually.
Email: daphnei@cmu.edu, Phone: 412-268-7250
There is a new show every week during the football season.
The Kiltie Band performs a variety of music, including traditional marches, oldies, current pop tunes, and jazz standards.
The graphic mascot is uniquely adorned with a plaid scarf around its neck.
The Buggy Races tradition at Carnegie Mellon University has been running for 104 years.
He rose to prominence by founding what became the world's largest steel producing company.
Items featuring the official tartan pattern can be found in the University Store.
No, he started as a factory worker in a textile mill before eventually becoming a successful entrepreneur and industrialist.
As of Fall 2021, 7,062 gradyate and doctoral students.
The official mascot of Carnegie Mellon University is the Scottish terrier, known as Scotty.
The Kiltie Band performs two spring concerts. The special event they perform is at Carnegie Mellon’s Spring Carnival.
The first new school opened was the Graduate School of Industrial Administration in 1948, later renamed the David A. Tepper School of Business.
The options are Standard Timing (16 months) and Extended Timing (20 months).
No, the name "Scotty" refers both to the costumed mascot and the live dog mascot at Carnegie Mellon University.
It aims to advance the individual student experience and the broader Carnegie Mellon community experience.
Invented the Java computer programming language.
No.
The Fringe team is known for having the quietest buggies on the course.
The Kiltie Band also performs at a holiday concert, two spring concerts, and acts as a pep band for the basketball teams.
The Kiltie Band is administered by the Department of Athletics, Physical Education, and Recreation.
The School of Computer Science was founded in 1986, pioneering computing and artificial intelligence.
In 2019, 49.8%.
The MLT program is designed to prepare students for research careers in either academia or industry, involving two years of study split between coursework and research, including two summers dedicated solely to research. It emphasizes hands-on experience and a rigorous curriculum, with a requirement of 120 course units, including LTI and School of Computer Science courses.
December 13, 2023, at 3:00 p.m. EST.
Carnegie Mellon has been established for 115 years.
CMU was a key collaborator in the creation of the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center in 1986, along with the University of Pittsburgh and Westinghouse Electric Corp.
It changed froma a two-man teams changing places mid-race with simple constructions to slick, torpedo-like vessels requiring six people (five pushers and a driver) to maneuver a .84-mile course.
Times and dates for all performances are announced at the first practice.
Susan Bassett and Jennifer Church co-chaired the Mascot Identity Task Force.
No.
Students must pass at least 96 units of graduate-level courses.
There are several Kiltie-owned instruments available for your use. Loans begin at 4:30 p.m. before the first rehearsal.
It marked a significant change in university culture, promoting gender integration in academic and residential life.
The document does not specify Justine Cassell's research areas.
A student must complete 192 eligible units of study to earn the MSAII degree.
During Football season: Mondays and Thursdays from 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. and Game Day 9:30-11:00a.m. During Concert Season: Mondays and Thursdays from 5:30-6:30 p.m.
No.
The MCDS program prepares students through a comprehensive curriculum, hands-on experience, internship, and a capstone project, equipping them with the skills for roles as software engineers, data scientists, and project managers.
#1, First Place Ranking.
The expansion to international educational opportunities was in response to demand for expanded international educational opportunities.
No.
250.
A Chute Flagger is a team member who signals buggy drivers to start the right-hand turn from Schenley Drive onto Frew Street.
As of Fall 2021, 6,982 students.
The Mellon family played a crucial role in the university's history through the founding of the Mellon Institute and their support for Carnegie Tech, which eventually led to the establishment of Carnegie Mellon University.
Ralf Brown, Jamie Callan, Justine Cassell, Mona Diab, Fernando Diaz, Scott Fahlman, Robert Frederking, Anatole Gershman, Alexander Hauptmann, Daphne Ippolito, Lori Levin, Lei Li, Teruko Mitamura, Louis-Philippe Morency, David Mortensen, Eric Nyberg, Bhiksha Ramakrishnan, Carolyn Rosé, Alexander Rudnicky, Michael Shamos, Rita Singh, Alexander Waibel, Shinji Watanabe, Eric P. Xing, Chenyan Xiong, Yiming Yang
Andrew Carnegie believed that "to die rich is to die disgraced."
Carnegie Mellon celebrated the 50th anniversary of the merger in 2017.
No.
A. Nico Habermann.
No.
Carnegie Mellon has research partnerships in places like Los Angeles, New York City, Washington, D.C., Australia, China, Portugal, and Rwanda.
Requirements include GRE scores, proof of English language proficiency, official transcripts, a current resume, a statement of purpose, three letters of recommendation, and a short video response to a prompt question.
Yes.
Ralf Brown: 5711 Gates & Hillman Centers, Anatole Gershman: 6415 Gates & Hillman Centers, Alexander Hauptmann: 5519 Gates & Hillman Centers, Teruko Mitamura: 6711 Gates & Hillman Centers, Eric Nyberg: 6715 Gates & Hillman Centers
The MLT program integrates research through required research in both summers, directed research during the academic years under the guidance of faculty advisors, and the option to complete a thesis.
Core curriculum courses include Artificial Intelligence and Future Markets, Law of Computer Technology, Coding Bootcamp, and Machine Learning.
The focus was on management science, public sector training, and pioneering computing and artificial intelligence.
The final application deadline for Fall 2024 admission is December 13, 2023, at 3 p.m. EST, with a fee of $100 per program, or $80 for applications submitted before the early deadline of November 29, 2023, at 3PM EST.
Prerequisites include Principles of Imperative Computation (15-122), Principles of Functional Programming (15-150), and it's strongly encouraged to take courses in calculus, matrices and linear transformations, and probability.
NCAA Division III.
The first IBM computer arrived on campus in 1956.
Nearly 78 percent of 2,370 students surveyed in February 2007 voted for the Scottish terrier.
The motto is "My heart is in the work."
CAPTCHAs helped distinguish between humans and automated bots, mitigating spam and malicious attacks on the internet.
25% of surveyed alumni mistakenly believed the Scottish terrier was already the mascot.
He donated $1 million for the creation of a technical institute for the city of Pittsburgh.
The graphic of the official mascot of Carnegie Mellon University features a profile of a distinguished, bold Scottish terrier sporting a plaid scarf around his neck. The dog is contained in a shield, representing Carnegie Mellon's Scottish heritage.
Bhiksha Ramakrishnan, Alexander Rudnicky, Shinji Watanabe, Alexander Waibel
The program prepares students through a combination of classroom instruction, professional experience, and significant projects, enabling them to pursue successful careers in industry or government, often with job offers within six weeks of graduation.
2 p.m. EST in Weigand Gymnasium in the Cohon University Center.
Students spend their first year and the last two years of the program in Portugal.
Invented by professor Luis von Ahn; had 10 million downloads in 12 months and was named Apple’s 2013 app of the year.
The MCDS degree focuses on engineering and deploying large-scale information systems, including developing technology layers and analyzing data these systems generate.
No.
No.
No.
The arrangement of colored threads in a tartan is identical in both the warp and the weft, ensuring that each stripe of the warp crosses every stripe of the weft at equal intervals.
Students must apply for admission no later than September 30 of their senior year.
As of 2021, 102,577 alumni.
Inspired by the Xerox Alto, Reddy aimed to develop CMU’s own personal workstation with a megabyte of memory, a megapixel display, and at least one million instructions per second of processing power.
13 Academy Awards.
Teams name their buggies based on themes. For example, Fringe names theirs with the letter "B" (e.g., Boson, Blueshift), Apex uses names connoting fire, and SDC uses names like Vice, Bane, Avarice, and Malice.
CMU developed pioneering systems for handheld, portable speech-to-speech translators, moving closer to real-life universal translators.
CMU Soccer Field.
No.
Andrew Carnegie contributed to the industrial era by founding the world's largest steel producing company.
The curriculum includes a year in Portugal for classes and directed study, two years at Carnegie Mellon for coursework in linguistics, computer science, statistical learning, and task orientation, followed by extensive research in Portugal leading to a dissertation.
No.
No.
MCDS students can complete their degree through Standard Timing (16 months, graduating in December) or Extended Timing (20 months, graduating in May), with differences in semester unit requirements and study duration.
The first shared-memory multiprocessor computer and a 50-processor computer, respectively.
The university's mascot is a Scottish terrier.
The Mach kernel is crucial as it underpins all modern Apple devices, while Java's significance lies in its platform independence, enabling applications to run on almost any device.
Yes.
Carnegie Mellon collaborated with SME Branding for mascot graphics.
Mao Yisheng, a student from China, received the first doctorate.
The Kiltie Band performed for the first time on Andrew Carnegie's 87th birthday.
To graduate from the MLT program, students must complete two years of study, which includes two summers of required research, and take 120 or more course units, with at least 72 units being LTI courses and 24 units from the School of Computer Science.
It became the Carnegie Institute of Technology twelve years later, in 1912.
No, any member of the campus community with music experience is able to join the Kiltie Band!
CMU has attracted major companies like Google, Intel, Uber, and GE to locate operations and create new jobs in Pittsburgh.
The Kiltie Marching Band plays at all Carnegie Mellon home football games.
Yes.
Wiegand Gymnasium.
Farnam Jahanian.
Andrew Carnegie died in 1919, and it is noted that his vision for an educated public lived on after him.
Carnegie Mellon has contributed to innovation by being a birthplace of innovation, known for solving real-world problems through interdisciplinary collaboration.
Cardinal and Gray.
Scottie Dog.
diazf@cmu.edu (Fernando Diaz)
The original name was the College of Humanities and Social Sciences before it was renamed to Marianna Brown Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences.
Andrew Carnegie founded the Carnegie Technical Schools.
He settled in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Yes.
No.
Focus groups with students and alumni helped select the mascot image.
412-268-8054.
It pioneered conservatory degree programs in music and drama, as well as visual art and design programs, and awarded the first U.S. drama degree in 1914.
Yes.
Transition is the process where one pusher finishes pushing a buggy, and the next pusher starts to push that same buggy.
Potholes are create challenging conditions, potentially leading to most heats running just two lanes instead of three.
Andrew Carnegie founded Carnegie Technical Schools in Pittsburgh in 1900.
Kevlar Fiber, invented by alumna Stephanie Kwolek.
No.
Students must complete at least 72 units of LTI courses, 24 units of SCS courses, and two lab courses in two different research areas.
November 25th, 1922.
It expanded from two buildings into an elegant 20th century campus designed in the beaux arts architectural style, with machine shops, studios, and laboratories.
No.
The Mellon Institute was founded by the Mellon family of Pittsburgh.
Brandeis, 2004.
Alumni have pursued careers at notable organizations like Apple, IBM, and Google.
Duolingo offers free language tutoring software through its website and mobile apps, enabling users to learn multiple languages while also helping to translate the web.
Lori Levin, Lei Li, Graham Neubig, Alexander Waibel
The course goes around Schenley Park's Flagstaff Hill.
Tartans are often misrepresented as a fierce warrior from either the Asian tundra or Scottish highlands.
Buggy refers to both the vehicle being raced and the competition itself.
Carnegie Mellon has more than 20 research partnerships.
Carnegie Mellon University officially adopted the Scottish terrier as its mascot in 2007.
Yes.
MLT students must complete 120 or more course units, of which at least 72 must be LTI courses, 24 must be School of Computer Science courses, and the remaining units can be taken from the LTI or other approved senior- or graduate-level courses at CMU or Pitt.
Undergraduates interested in computer science pursued an "applied math/CS" bachelor’s degree offered by the Mathematics Department before a dedicated undergraduate program was created during the 1989-90 academic year.
December 13, 2023, at 3 p.m. EST.
The 'Carnegie Plan' required science and engineer students to take courses in humanities and social sciences to better understand the needs of society.
Andrew Carnegie was a self-educated entrepreneur and industrialist who founded the world's largest steel producing company by the end of the 19th century.
Carnegie Mellon began offering degree programs outside of Pittsburgh in the 2000s.
No.
FieldTurf.
No.
CMU researchers improved computer performance by linking together multiple processors, creating a pioneering computer that significantly sped up the processing of speech and graphics programs.
The university will focus on advancing the individual student experience, the broader Carnegie Mellon community experience, and the social impact of Carnegie Mellon throughout the world.
The David A. Tepper School of Business focused on quantitative analysis and pioneered the field of management science.
Incoming students generally hold undergraduate degrees in computer science, software engineering, bioinformatics, or bioengineering.
CMU views technology and humanity as intersecting areas that guide its future.
No.
No.
The merger contributed to the establishment of the university's current structure by adding the last of its current pillars, which include the Mellon College of Science and the College of Humanities and Social Sciences.
1994
It was opened in 1968 and is currently named the H. John Heinz III College.
Andrew Carnegie's heritage was Scottish, as he was born in Dunfermline, Scotland.
December 13, 2023, at 3:00 p.m. EST.
Andrew Carnegie was Scottish before he emigrated to the United States.
It played a pivotal role by developing C.mmp and Cm*, early multiprocessor systems that were forerunners to today’s multi-core computing architectures.
500.
1900.
The mascot selection process at Carnegie Mellon began in November 2006.
The first two years include specific courses and labs, while the remaining years focus on directed research.
Its keen, alert intelligence, strength, and agility make it a fitting mascot for CMU.
In 1973, Margaret Morrison closed, and women joined their male peers in classrooms and dorms.
No, Membership is open to all members of the campus/community without audition.
Fernando Diaz, Maarten Sap
The shared vision of the founders was revisited during the 50th anniversary celebration.
The first graduate degree, a doctorate in civil engineering, was offered to Mao Yisheng.
Andrew Carnegie founded Carnegie Mellon University and had a Scottish terrier.
Most graduates become professors and research scientists, while a few have started their own companies.
The schools offered two- and three-year certificates in the arts and in engineering disciplines.
"My Heart is in the Work."
Alexander Waibel
Key traits include strength, power, and agility, aligning with CMU's image.
The actual meaning of a Tartan refers to a type of fabric characterized by stripes of various colors and widths against a solid ground, associated with Scottish family lineages.
Carnegie Technical Schools was founded in 1900.
MCDS students must complete a minimum of 144 units to graduate.
Yes.
Yes.
Gesling Stadium.
7
The study plan includes a mix of classes, directed study, and required research in Portugal for the first year, followed by coursework and directed research in Pittsburgh for the next four years.
It merged with Mellon Institute.
The MIIS-16 option focuses on a standard track completed in three semesters and a summer internship, requiring 84 units. In contrast, the MIIS-21 option allows for deeper study in a concentration area over four semesters and a summer internship, requiring at least 108 units.
In the fall of 1988.
MIIS-16 students must complete at least 84 units covering human language, machine learning, and language technology applications breadth requirements.
The mascot graphic features a Scottish terrier with a plaid scarf in a shield.
Standard Timing involves 16 months of study with graduation in December, while Extended Timing spans 20 months with graduation in May, with differences in semester unit requirements and the length of study.
He viewed it as a time for writing, social activism, and philanthropy, focusing on establishing educational opportunities.
By embracing all facets of computing, including big data and connected computing, and continuing to lead in education and research across a wide variety of computing disciplines.
No.
Shell refers to the entire outer structure or covering of a buggy that affects its aerodynamic characteristics.
Yes.
Carnegie Mellon is known for innovation, solving real-world problems, and interdisciplinary collaboration.
No.
No.
The LTI degree programs prepare students for a wide range of career options by emphasizing different types of expertise related to human language technologies, including information retrieval, machine translation, speech technology, text mining, natural language processing, and language-based tutoring.
No.
On the first day of class (Monday) at 5:30 p.m. in the CUC Studio Theater. If you have questions, please email the Direcator at jolisar@andrew.cmu.edu.
The requirement is fulfilled by completing a semester-long directed research project in the context of being registered for an independent study or thesis in an area related to a chosen elective.
His vision was to establish a school where working-class men and women could learn practical skills, trades, and crafts to enhance their careers, lives, and communities.
Teams are often secretive about their construction methods, particularly regarding brakes, steering, and the types of wheels used.
In 1958.
When vertical and horizontal stripes of the same color cross in a tartan pattern, the result is a solid color at the point of intersection.
In 1965.
The impact of the merger will continue to be significant in the future of higher education, research, and discovery.
By focusing on the social impact of Carnegie Mellon throughout the world.
Yonatan Bisk
No.
A Tartan is a twilled woolen fabric with a plaid design, of Scottish origin, denoting a particular family lineage.
Among Carnegie Mellon's alumni, there are CEOs, entrepreneurs, professors, and artists.
It marks the previous major expansion before the upcoming largest expansion.
Yes.
No.
Tartans.
Carnegie Mellon has more than a dozen degree-granting locations.
Lei Li: 412-268-6355, Louis-Philippe Morency: 412-268-5508, Bhiksha Ramakrishnan: 412-268-9826, Alexander Waibel: 412-268-7676
5419 Gates & Hillman Centers
CMU's approach evolved from pioneering the first computer science courses and interdisciplinary Ph.D. programs to establishing a leading School of Computer Science with a broad interdisciplinary focus, incorporating advances in AI, robotics, and human-computer interaction among others.
In 1982, the Computer Science Department had over 30 faculty members and 100 graduate students. By 2013, SCS had 284 faculty members and nearly 1,700 students, including undergraduates, master’s, and Ph.D. students.
At the Buggy Showcase.
Yes.
The Scottish terrier mascot performer sports attire made from Carnegie tartan.
No.
After the football season.
The Mellon family of Pittsburgh provided support for Carnegie Tech before the merger.
35% international.
The School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University.
Yes.
The H. John Heinz III College provides graduate training for work in the public sector.
Yes.
Kemal Oflazer
No.
No.
The nickname "Tartans" pays homage to Andrew Carnegie's Scottish heritage.
The early application fee is $80, while the regular application fee is $100.
Each driver must log a number of practice runs to qualify to race.
Through research, innovation, and creativity at the intersection of technology and humanity.
Application requirements include a GPA of 3.0 or higher, GRE scores, English Language Proficiency score (for non-native speakers), unofficial transcripts, current resume, Statement of Purpose, three letters of recommendation, and a strongly suggested short video about the applicant.
Buggies are often built around their drivers, ensuring a snug fit. Drivers are often less than 5 feet, 3 inches in height, and most are women.
No.
No.
Students must choose three elective courses of at least 9 units each.
The LTI's degree programs incorporate human language technologies by offering a minor that allows students to learn about and apply knowledge in areas like information retrieval, machine translation, speech technology, text mining, and natural language processing through coursework and a directed project.
No.
Seven students.
Carnegie Tech positioned itself at the forefront of educational innovation by embracing information technology and expanding its academic offerings.
The core course required is Human Language for Artificial Intelligence (11-411).
117,257.
The Kiltie Band is recognized by the Student Senate.
Completing an MLT thesis is optional, but guidelines for those choosing to complete one can be found in the MLT Handbook.
The Scottish terrier was chosen as the mascot because it won the vote in a series of surveys and a university Town Hall meeting. Additionally, Carnegie Mellon University had a history of connection with the breed.
Join and you’ll find out!
#1.
3,500.
13 Turing Awards.
Yes.
The Kiltie Band performs at all home football games, a holiday concert, and two spring concerts.
Herb Simon, for his work on decision-making theory.
No.
No.
Portugal.
The Kiltie Band acts as a pep band for the basketball teams.
The first smile in an email, created in 1982 by professor Scott Fahlman.
No.
Fairings are used to reduce drag, make the vehicle quieter, and enhance its appearance. They have been a key feature for the Fringe team.
Herb Simon (H’90) and Alan Perlis (S’42).
Before becoming the official mascot in 2007, students had dressed as a Scottish terrier for 50 years.
It laid the groundwork for a research institution by recruiting leading scientists, offering sponsored fellowships, and pioneering interdisciplinary research.
#28 in the world.
The program focuses on developing the next generation of scientific and entrepreneurial leaders in computer science, particularly in language and information technologies, through research that advances the state-of-the-art.
The merger has had a significant impact on the world of higher education, research, and discovery.
Carnegie Tech merged with the Mellon Institute to become Carnegie Mellon University in 1967.
The condition of the race course, especially potholes, can significantly affect the safety and speed of the races. Poorly filled potholes make it dangerous to drive.
CMU researcher Hans Berliner developed Hitech, the first computer to achieve grandmaster status, and CMU alumni played key roles in developing IBM's Deep Blue, which beat chess champion Garry Kasparov in 1997.
4
No.
Yonatan Bisk
412-268-7676 (Alexander Waibel)
Carnegie Mellon alumni have excelled in various fields including winning Tony Awards, Nobel Prizes, Turing Awards, becoming CEOs, entrepreneurs, professors, and artists.
BOSS won the 2007 DARPA Urban Challenge road race.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (PA) 15213.
FieldTurf.
The LTI Dual-Degree Ph.D. program emphasizes a balance of coursework in linguistics, computer science, statistical learning, and task orientation, with extensive research in Portugal, unlike traditional Ph.D. programs which may focus solely on research or coursework in a single location.
In 2014.
The document lists 4 faculty members with a specific interest in Machine Learning and over 10 with interests in various areas of Natural Language Processing.
The Andrew project aimed to provide every student, faculty member, and employee with access to email, word processing, file-transfer services, and graphics programs, making CMU the most-wired campus in the world.
By initiating the 'Carnegie Plan' which required science and engineering students to take humanities and social sciences courses.
No.
The terrier's keen, alert, and intelligent look symbolizes CMU's valued qualities.
It housed a wealth of machine shops, studios, and laboratories as the hands-on center of learning.
Rehearsals during football, and concert seasons are at the CUC Studio Theater.
126 countries.
The first doctorate was awarded in 1919, in the field of civil engineering.